In the last section we ran the Docker PS Command and we saw one variation of it which was Docker, PS
Dash all.
When we ran Dash, Dash all on here, we saw that we got a print up of all the containers we'd ever
started up on our machine, which is kind of interesting because it kind of begs the question, when
does a container really get shut down?
Why does it get shut down?
And what happens when it gets shut down?
So starting this section, I want to start to show you a little bit around the life cycle of a container
which is going to give you a better idea of what's going on behind the scenes now before first investigating
or just jumping to the end, like figuring out what happens when a container gets shut down.
I want to kind of go all the way to the start and really figure out what happens when a container is
first created.
Now, we've learned at this point that to start up a new container from an image, we use the Docker
run command.
But when we looked at this diagram, remember we looked at this diagram like two or three sections ago,
you'll notice that I put some very particular terminology here.
I said, Creating and running a container.
Creating a container and actually starting it up are actually two separate processes.
So there's actually two additional commands in addition to Docker run that we can use to start up a
new container.
Docker run, running that at your command line is identical to running two other commands together.
First Docker Create and then Docker start.
As you might guess, the Docker Create Commands is used to create a container out of an image and then
start is used to actually start an image.
But at this point you might be a little bit curious of, Hey, what's the distinction between creating
a container and actually starting a container?
Let's look at a diagram that's going to help you understand the differences between the two.
So we've looked at a diagram like this several times before.
Remember, on our image over here, we've got that kind of file system snapshot of sorts, and we've
also got a start up command.
The process of creating a container is where we kind of take the file system in here and kind of prep
it for use in this new container.
When we create the container, we're just talking about kind of prepping or setting up this file system
snapshot to be used to create the container to actually start the container.
That's when we actually execute this start up command that might start up the process of like hello
world or in the case of that busy box one that we used the echo.
Hi there.
Or whatever process is supposed to be executed inside the container.
So again, creating a container is about the file system starting.
It is about actually executing the startup command.
So with that in mind, let's try flipping over to our command line really quickly and we're going to
start to investigate the differences between creating a container and starting a container.
Over at my my command line.
I'm going to first try running the Docker, create and start commands with the Hello World image.
So I will first do Docker.
Creates Hello World.
When I run that command, I get this long string of characters printed out.
This is the ID of the container that was just created.
I can now actually execute the Hello World Command inside of this container by running Docker start.
And I'm going to add on a little argument here.
I'm going to say Dash a we'll talk about what that is in just a second.
And then I'm going to paste the ID that was just emitted right here.
So I'm going to paste in that really long series of characters.
And then when I run this command, we'll see that familiar welcome message up.
So what happened here?
Well, again, first off, we kind of prepped the container by getting that file system ready.
Then after that, we actually executed the primary start up command in there with Docker start.
Now, what was with the dash right there?
Well, to show you what's going on with that, let's try running Docker start again, but without the
dash.
So I'm going to run Docker Start and then I'm going to again paste in oops, I lost the thing.
I've got to do the create again very quickly.
So there's my ID and I'll do Docker start, but without the dash this time.
So when I run Docker start, you'll notice that I just see the ID, the dash, a command is what's going
to make docker actually watch for output from the container and print it out to your terminal.
So the dash specifically means, hey, kind of attached to the container, so to speak, and watch for
output coming from it and print it out at my terminal.
So when I put on Docker start dash, that means give me any output that is coming from that thing.
And when I run that boom, there it is.
So you'll notice that's a very small difference between Docker run and Docker start by default.
Docker Run is going to show you all the logs or all the information coming out of the container by default.
Docker start is the opposite.
Docker Start is not going to show you information coming out of the terminal.
All right.
So that's a differences between Docker run and Docker Start and Docker create.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back to the next section and we'll talk a little bit more about exactly what it
meant when we saw with the Docker piece all that exited status.
So a quick break and I'll see you in just a minute.